the Israeli government and in particular
its prime minister are facing growing
criticism over their handling of the
aftermath of hamas's terrorist attacks
Israel media are reporting that Benjamin
Netanyahu is at odds with his War
cabinet and Military Generals in the
past weeks we've seen the Prime Minister
visiting troops across Israel especially
the forces massing on the Israeli Gaza
border ahead of an expected ground
Invasion but sources cited by Israeli
media claim that there is growing
displeasure at his refusal to engage
with milit AR
leaders Netanyahu have so far refrained
from admitting that he made any mistakes
before during and after the attacks by
Hamas tonight we saw the first public
show of self-reflection Netanyahu is
saying that everyone will have to
explain themselves including
himself citizens of Israel October the
7th was a black day in our history we
will get to the bottom of what happened
on the southern border around Gaza this
debacle will be in investigated everyone
will have to give answers including
me and for more now I want to bring in
DW's mid East analyst shaie rosanis so
the very self-aware Benjamin Netanyahu
tonight we know that the Prime Minister
he's come under criticism um did he
deliver the message that the Israeli
people may have been expecting well 220
families of hostages were expecting to
hear something about the hostages that
did not happen but did bring himself to
as close as I think we will ever get
from him to hear I am responsible I
apologize I take responsibility for what
happened he said it's clear to him this
this has been a great failure and
there's going to be a lot of hard
questions to be asked and he will be
amongst those to be answering them so
that's close enough for many Israelis um
we need to keep in mind it's been 19
days Nan has not held a single press
conference not facing the journalist
he's not pressing the facing the Press
so he's not really answering the hard
questions yet um so far he has support
but it he understands that he cannot
last for too long military leaders in
Israel quickly acknowledge their failure
to um protect Israelis after October 7th
I mean has there been any admission of
political responsibility for the
security failures on October 7th well if
you want to focus on the security
failures that's very easy for the
politicians you know to to put this as a
failure of intelligence the Army that's
a very safe spot for politicians but
there is of course the need within
Israeli public to look at the broader
picture what role did politicians have
in their deeds in securing or not
securing and in striving or not striving
towards a political solution to the
Palestinian problem towards you know
negotiating backdoor deals through qat
with Hamas you know this is something
done by the political uh you know level
and not by only by by the military so in
that aspect um we have not seen enough
of the political uh backbone of Israel
stepping up and saying you know we also
have a a stake in in this failure the
consensus now is let's first fight and
then deal with everything else um but
it's also as we're learning that this
fight will take very long um there's
also an understanding that maybe harder
questions still need to pop up
beforehand and we've seen a former Chief
of Staff of the um Israel Defense Forces
saying that Netanyahu should resign now
others saying that the government is
dysfunctional I mean it's it's not a
pretty picture I mean what do we know
about the views of active military
leaders in Israel well active military
leaders are are silent uh we know about
some uh Rifts regarding operational uh
issues for example the ground oper you
know invasion is it coming when is it
coming should we uh have more uh
humanitarian Aid coming in or less but
when it comes to netanyahu's political
future we don't hear anything um of that
sort um we do hear among politicians uh
even from netanyahu's party more and
more voices saying it is clear that he
will not be able to stay much longer in
his position once the fighting is gone
um it's still yet to be seen if they
will live up to that or where will he it
lead him we've seen Nan uh is masterful
in finding his way out even from the
most dire crisises do you think he'll
survive this War I think this the
chances are very slim but I also think
that we all know too good in order to be
too quick to say that he will not be
able to survive that's a very good point
I mean he's been written off too many
times before let me ask you about um
bidy gun he is a member of this
emergency Unity government he is a man
with a lot of military experience is he
crucial to I this war having a
successful end he is crucial I mean the
the rightwing of part of n was going
government they say well he's part of
the conception that failed but then we
he is quite crucial because this is
where we zoom out and we look at the
Americans you know linkoln did not make
it to Israel before the unity government
was announced Netanyahu had you know
enlarging the government has helped him
gain The credibility from the people but
also from a big la like the us we know
that when blinkin was around and he was
sitting with the cabinet uh the the
unity ministers it was important for him
to include them in the picture we know
that their presence as the more moderate
Balancing Act in Net's government is
very very important in that aspect of
getting control you know getting support
for for Net's actions how much of these
these problems would you say go back pre
October 7th and I'm thinking about
Netanyahu pushing for these judicial
reforms a lot of people critics even the
Biden Administration saying he's
attacking the checks and balances system
of government well there are PE voices
within Israel still in a margin saying
that that the enemy that Hamas saw the
fragility of the Israeli society and
thought it can take advantage of it and
we've seen it was quite successful there
are these voices so far still in a
margins but but it's it and we've seen a
an unbelievable Unity among you know
from all ranks from Ultra Orthodox and
Arab Israelis everybody joining in in
these crucial moments in this terrible
you know facing this this attack um but
we also know this will not last for too
long you know uh the Visions are already
starting to come uh you know to the
surface when it comes to the hosal when
it comes to humanitarian crisis when it
comes to policy and then you know the
Hawks will remain Hawks the does will we
know will stay doves and and N is as a
hawk and he's surrounded by hawks sha
rosanis as always we appreciate you
coming in we appreciate your analysis
thank you you're
welcome all right I'm going to pull in
journalist Samy sole now he is in
Jerusalem Sammy let's go through this
the prime minister is saying that the
IDF is preparing for a ground incursion
we've heard from French president IM
macron he has called that and I'm
quoting here an error we've also got
media reports that Israel actually
agreed to delay its offensive I mean can
you give us some clarity here on what
the message
is yeah well definitely natany is
preparing the Israeli public for a long
campaign in the Gaza Strip he's
preparing the public this is considered
to be like a very important speech and
this is how it's received in Israel now
as to the time
clearly it's not going to happen tonight
we've read let's say in the Wall Street
Journal that Americans have been asking
Israel to postpone this kind of ground
incursion especially because they want
to deploy air defense systems throughout
the Middle East to protect American uh
sites in places such as Iraq Jordan
Kuwait Syria and so forth so the
Americans are now preparing for what
they think would be a strikes against
them by different factions in the Middle
East so therefore we're seeing this kind
of like
postponing Sammy the the Prime Minister
also spoke about security lapses that
were exposed in the October 7th attacks
I mean did he take any responsibility
for this and maybe if you could just
remind us of what those lapses
are yeah well
we we did not hear from him the taking
of responsibility the kind of statements
that we heard from people uh from the uh
military Echelon and this was much
awaited I think many in the Israeli
public they regard Netanyahu as being
responsible for at least some of the
failure and and we didn't hear that
nevertheless he said that in the after
the war he will answer questions as to
what has happened and of course we're
talking about a a failure first on the
behalf of the intelligence uh that they
did not realize that Hamas has been
preparing for many months maybe a whole
year such a large scale operation and
the Israel that has been boasting of
having such a sophisticated intelligence
knowing where everything and what is
happening it totally failed on this
on top of that we had operational
failure of the troops and especially
we're talking about the towers that were
taken down by Hamas drones so there was
no proper surveillance and of course the
wall that Israel built through along the
Gaza Strip that that failed to to to
stop the uh hundreds of Hamas people and
the air strikes um that are hitting the
Gaza Strip they intensify today
right indeed we're talking about a a
pounding of the Gaza Strip This is what
Israel said it would do and it will
continue h some are saying that this is
why they're not going yet for a ground
incursion they still want to bombard the
Gaza Strip unfortunately we we seeing
casualties civilian
casualties um there's a very known
journalist from Al jaaz while his wife a
daughter and Son were all killed in one
of these bombardments and this is going
to
continue journalist Sammy Soo with the
latest tonight from Jerusalem Sammy
thank
you